okay I'm Severin I'm a writer and
creator attic currently work as the
public programs manager at our desk
paranoid workshop and it's really cool
that some of you have been able of his
airspace so I'm going to start by just
getting a little bit about background
about myself that the program that we
were crime so obviously today with
sherry Wasserman and Georgina box who
are two out of the four folks working on
the situation systems team David
burrington and Deb chhatra are also the
team's well but they were not here with
us today but we're going to see a little
bit today about the project and we've
divided the presentation at age of three
chunks so for the first bit i'll talk a
little bit about why we wanted to start
a programmable like this and other messy
for the second it sure it will speak a
little bit about what the project is and
how the team has Don about reached
researching their work and finally
George will see a little bit about the
role of place in this site based
research project so I'm gonna get
started by giving you a little bit of
background about my role as an Autodesk
person so I don't work on the situated
systems team but I'm the lab manager and
a co-founder and so I work as a public
programs manager at pier nine that's
what Pierre and I looks like from one of
those sides we have a really great
workshop we've got CNC machines 3d
printers laser cutters a Test Kitchen
woodshop metal shop it's a pretty
awesome facility so how many of you were
here at the festival last year cool okay
so if you were here last year you might
remember that more she nollie re who is
in the audience right there hi and I
were on a panel last year talking about
the artisan resins programs at Autodesk
and so one of the things that we talked
about included pr9 and our workshop and
how we have this artisan residence
program where not everyone identifies as
an artist
and subsequently a lot of the work
produced in the program at pier 9 has an
emphasis on form and aesthetics but
sometimes there's an aboutness quality
that isn't necessarily in all of the
work and that's fine autodesk is a
design software company not an art
company but also both more Sheen and I
come from more traditional academic art
backgrounds in some ways and she has an
MFA in a strong critical theory
background I have an MA in curating and
I've worked in museums for a really long
time so in a certain sense the
artist-in-residence program wasn't
giving us something that we were really
hungry for and that was like a deeper
look at critical making a more of an
interest in theory and research kind of
this this interest in okay cool you're
making this interesting or beautiful
thing but why so pretty much
simultaneously and autonomously my boss
Noah Weinstein more Sheanon and I pretty
much all developed separate but similar
visions for a program that would build
upon all the success and traction of the
air program and really support that
critical aspect simultaneously more
Sheen came up with a great name for the
program the experimental research lab
and then we got to work designing the
program so it was really important to us
at the program included three components
that it created a legible public
discourse that extended beyond tech I
think it can be really easy to get stuck
in jargon and kind of navel gazing asst
of technology or a particular discipline
and if you're on the outside of that can
be really really easy to feel excluded
or completely left out of that and two
we wanted the group to produce hybrid
research so not just an architecture
project not just a design project not
just an art project we wanted to look at
one research question from multiple
angles and third finally we really
wanted a project that really either
actively used our workshop or related to
our workshop thematically and so we
received a handful of very competitive
applications and we interviewed some
folks and ultimately we found that with
their combined expertise in material
science infrastructure research design
and critical theory the situated systems
team
was the best qualified by far to meet
the objectives that we had for the
program and so with the understanding
that this was sort of a pilot program
and that we'd learn a lot in the process
we decided to get started and we've
definitely learned a lot in that process
so as many of you probably know the idea
of artist residents using tech companies
is is nothing new so this is an example
from a project robert rauschenberg did
called open score at Bell Labs and more
historical examples include residency's
at the lab Xerox PARC and curtain
temporarily there are residency's at
facebook spotify adobe and so on and so
on and i think depending on the company
these residency's can serve a range of
functions including boosting employee
morale to support local arts
infrastructure decorating an office to
marketing or demonstrating the use of a
company's technology or data and I won't
speak very much about the air program at
pier nine but it serves all of those
functions in a way that is arguably
reciprocal and somewhat just artists get
to keep their own intellectual property
they receive monthly stipends and their
work gets to live on inside the outside
the building we don't keep it forever so
um including some of the work by Gabe
that you see I'm a lobby right now so
thinking about the function of this new
program the experimental research lab we
had a bunch of hopes we hope that we
could look more critically and become
more involved within the deeply complex
conversation surrounding the tech
sectors role in the ongoing
unsustainability of the Bay Area and
that the interdisciplinary qualities of
the research could possibly help
autodesk deal better with a problem of
its own interdepartmental silos and
product groups and of course atmosphere
and community is a big part of what we
see is our strong suits and we wanted
these teams to embed in our community
and affect the ways we think work and
relate to each other and we could talk
more about a what a weird situation all
of that makes all of those desires and
all of those expectations all of those
hopes this idea of situating critical
public facing discourse within a
for-profit publicly traded company like
how do you
get people to care who don't already
care how do you get people to ask
questions and be provocative how do you
acclimate a research team to all the
hardware software and lunchtime rituals
of a space like peer night how do you
get away with embarking on a potentially
provocative process in one of the
largest software companies in the world
George and sherry might touch in these
subjects a little bit but otherwise I
feel that we're so deeply amidst the
process that I don't really fully know
the answer to these questions but I'll
let sherry speak to what their work is
focused on on the forms that's been
taking so as Sarah mentioned George and
I are two members of the team um we are
also artists and designers but we also
have backgrounds in history and
anthropology and engineering we've
worked across academia and government
and cultural institutions and industry
and we'll try to give you a little
glimpse into the world that we've been
forming and finding our way through so
as part of the project we decided to
look at the bay region as today and
yesterday I saw Megan Preminger speak
earlier in the week and she said
something that really struck me about
present ISM as a framing she said I'm
against present present ISM because it
tends to deny the possibility of change
which I feels really at the heart of
what we're looking at we're looking
backwards and forwards and we're
attempting to understand and unearth the
relationships between the past and the
present particularly of this area so we
came into the project with some initial
ideas of what we wanted to look at
particularly the military-industrial
complex and its relationship to tech
culture in this region particularly over
time and the relationship of those two
to the physical environment of the bay
we all had a certain amount of
familiarity and interest in it but as
we've really started to get into what
was important to us and what the stories
were the project began to take shape we
found that tech culture became more of
an underlying and inherent thing as we
investigated these other three things
more specifically and there were a few
themes that kept coming back to again
and again so we're going to start with a
glimpse into the
was to give you a sense of where we're
coming from so as Deb our colleague
often says the tech industry went from
an industry of atoms to bits to adams
particularly in this area starting with
Silicon Valley and hardware then
concentrating considerably on software
is now looking very closely at
fabrication and other forms of
open-source hardware and we are
fundamentally situated within a
fabrication facilities so materials are
essential to everything that we're doing
particularly in a place that's full of
machines pure line is an amazing
intersection of software and machines
but we're not just looking at Autodesk
in now this is a machine from Merritt
Island this naval shipyard that George
discovered so we're looking backwards as
well and in looking backwards memory
takes on many many forms this is a piece
about the history of the waterfront that
which is the location of our fellowship
and it's a piece of ephemera and the
prelinger library so memory can look
like this but it can also look like this
which is this is bala made a naval base
a building that shuttered in 1995 but it
can also look like this and this is a
Nike missile silo in the headlands that
was decommissioned in the 70s but
citizens essentially recreated it the
parks department took over the land but
it was former military and enthusiasts
who worked to really recreate the site
that the park department gives tours of
and it's maintained by former military
on a day to day basis and former
military and enthusiasts also recreated
the USS Hornet out on Alameda these
enthusiasts and former commission men
tell their histories and their own
stories but as they institutionalized
the stories of this place if they remind
us of the persistent link between the
military and tech innovation in the
region and it also reminds us that
institutions can look like this this is
a military do not disturb sign on
Alameda which is also a Superfund site
in institutions can look like this this
is a outside space at pier 9 a kind
love this robot and we're reminded also
by artists such as Andrew Fraser that
institutions can look like this as she
says moving from a substantive
understanding of the institution as
specific places organizations and
individuals to a conception of it as a
social field question of what is inside
and what is outside becomes much more
complex going back to one of the things
sarah said you know what does it means
work within an institution looking at
institutions both formal and informal
and that's the core too much of our work
so there's so many topics and
complexities that in many ways into them
just concentrate on three of the core
ways that we've begun to look at it the
first one is this conceit of trans
scalar we first found this concept
through a translation by an author Scott
Slovak who extended this idea to
individuals and narratives but it's
really more of a geographic concept of
looking at individuals about an
individual place that also then
translates to a much more global view
this is another machine that George
found that is related to mare island
she's been tracking where the machines
went after the auction of the machines
from the decommissioned military site
and we're looking at military industrial
complex and decommissioned bases in
general but she's actually going to the
atomic machine level and tracking where
of these been going and what does this
mean for maker culture here situated
knowledges is a term that we borrowed
from donna haraway seminal essay of the
same name and we take the conceit of we
just live here and try to strike up
non-innocent conversations very
seriously we have a zine series that we
started that we have some physical
copies but it's also distributed online
to be you on screen or down line to
bring your own and we've been talking to
people in the area who are concentrating
on different aspects of what our
research is the first issue is with
Scott killed all who's associated with
both pr9 and grey area with an interview
with him by George it also means taking
where we are and looking out into the
world this is a view from the arcade at
pier 9 and so we're really looking at
the pier as a view shed to annotate what
within what's through without through
different knowledge is so one of the key
places we can see actually from pyridine
is Treasure Island and a recent visit
confirmed our instinct that plywood is
the material of choice of decommissioned
military bases and so we use that as
inspiration to think of a
next-generation experimental zeen
project that we're starting to do where
we're using our unique skills and
resources to create this experimental
zine using our skills as material
scientists and historians and
photographers to laser cut plywood that
will become both a bespoke object and
also a black and white print scene and
will also distribute the laser-cut files
by using the material itself as the page
we start to thread the narratives across
connected sites across these
decommissioned military bases all of
which have some more materiality to them
and fundamentally all of these things
are connected I'm going to end now with
some views of some of Ingrid's research
that she's been doing about mapping the
toxic legacy of the tech industry in
Silicon Valley
hey so I'm gonna bring this particular
path of talk to close before we have a
discussion thinking about the very
specific aspects of where terms of what
we're doing again we could have done
this well it's possibly not with the gun
support we have but this kind of
research interrogating things like not
to industrial complex kind of role of
kind of geography topology in this area
could have been done an archive to a
certain extent they were kind of
certainly enough kind of deep libraries
and things we could have pulled on and
done kind of a more classical piece of
kind of social science or design
research but we're not we're in pair 9
so what I want to kind of just quickly
go through is some of the ways that that
influences what we're doing and some of
the questions of that raises for our
approach our outcomes our engagement as
well again as Sarah said we're fairly
mired in the project at the moment so
this is kind of more kind of thinking
about where we are now than kind of
being able to look back at it you know a
month later but yep this is kind of the
point at which the ours now so i'll show
you pointed out we can't we're in a
place with very strong machine presence
you know there are not only machines
here but very large industrial scale
machines and this is kind of there's
kind of a lot here to chew on about both
the history of manufacturing in san
francisco itself going back to again the
war efforts that kind of the large
boundaries that were present too and
also kind of again the nods to kind of
what what maker culture is when you're
thinking about something like a water
jet which is exceptionally dangerous to
use and fantastic and wonderful but
requires a huge amount of training as
well what it means to have both these
industrial tools and all the supporting
parts of a wood shop and a metal shop
too how can you kind of bring these
things together and think about both the
history of creation and production and
fabrication in the Bay Area looking out
from here and again there is this kind
of us longer history around particularly
the military sites around here but also
going down into the Kansas South Bay of
thinking what was made what were the
machines that we use to kind of make
these things what was the labor that was
involved in this engagement who are the
people who are there as well how in the
heck of these things too so the come the
machine presence is kind of quite a
constant thing for us can we have for
those of you who've been to pier nine
you have the workshop at the end of the
pier as well you go through the kind of
the badge gates to get there you have to
have training to work in these things
so this isn't something that can quite
lighting quite present this is something
that's going to vary they're very
solidly there's kind of that then the
noise and the sound and the smell of
resins and wood and metal that you get
there for thinking about what knew what
do these things mean but had we work
with them there's his face of pr9 itself
pr9 is on embarcadero it was set up as
kind of a showcase for the future of
design so it's a space not only where
you have working teams we're kind of
developing software developing strategy
you have the working the machine shop as
well which is a space also for
prototyping for rd not necessary for a
production line but also it's a very
publicly facing space there's a lot of
Tours that come through a lot of kind of
people that come through this space in a
way that wouldn't necessarily happen
elsewhere and that kind of you know is
encouraging for us to think about kind
of what stories get told what do people
see what do they not see when they come
through these spaces what's you know how
do they see you know the artists how do
they see us kind of what is the kind of
public vision that gets laid on this
place and what do we think about if we
think about what the future of design
looks like for this again they can those
large win this huge wonderful windows
that kind of in there and the code the
constant thing that we've had here has
been this canvas looking out of what can
you actually see what's kind of there as
this point of you know site here and
what's it means it can bring that back
into the workshop too I mean it's kind
of it's unsurprising again for the Bay
Area but a lot of the kind of thinking
we started with was the water
infrastructure of this area how that
relates to military concepts such as
shipyards how this relates to kind of
water and groundwater pollution
Superfund sites how that relates to the
kind of a supply chains of the things we
can literally see from the Port of
Oakland what are the lake was a labor
that was involved in building the Bay
Bridge or the Golden Gate and what's it
mean you know for these things to be
here as well one of the first things we
did I think about a week after we hit
the ground was to go up to the bay model
and kind of see this huge enormous
spectacular very physical landscape that
had been built at a point when software
was really useful enough to be doing
that kind of modeling and just seeing
both the scale of the kind of water
infrastructure around this area but also
kind of the types of kind of workarounds
and hacks had been built to allow things
like container ship to come in we have
you can see they're one of the pilot
ships where they kind of they steer
container ships through through the bay
towards the port but this kind of this
very human hand that maintains itself in
this getting very large complex system
itself and those looking back as well
this was from a ferry that was taken
down to oakland from pier 91 night and
we know where we're in the bar Kidero
we're in the bay we're in a place where
there's a lot of footfalls a lot of
people we're not in an industrial park
we're not down in the south bay we're
not somewhere that you either have to
kind of live nearby or commute in we're
come went somewhere comparatively for
the city very very central so kind of
what that means in terms of who can
engage with the technologies they're the
kind of public facing aspect of it as
well but also from the history that
comes with being so physically located
centrally I hadn't realized that the
screen was going to be so big when i
made this slide and but we're gonna work
with it this is me this is me and it me
this is me and the gigantic robot arm
from one of the labs and so there's kind
of a bunch of things going on here
beyond base vanity and what do we have
in the shops and what do we have in tier
9 well we have we have people we have
the shop staff we have the people who
work there we have the heirs we have you
know huge amount of teams that are there
so when you think about what it means to
engage in these kind of corporates
Infinity's corporate space these
organizations you know our last Soylent
Green you know organizations are made of
people so there's kind of this concert
network of knowledge and people that
we're engaging with but also thinking
about what their own histories are what
they bring what their relationship is to
the machines that we've got there this
idea of us kind of landing on the ground
being like we're going to tell you about
the Bay Area and they're like what we
work here we live here so you know maybe
we can tell you some stuff too but the
other reason for this kind of service
machines selfie is again there are tours
and there are very lovely machines and
this is not possibly not this one but
this is not an uncommon thing for people
to take a lot of photos with either
themselves or with the machines were
just the machines themselves and the
machines themselves are like you for
this Gordianus I probably don't need to
go too much into this but you know
that's a charisma that comes with
machines particularly large industrial
beautiful laser cutters or the higher
high-end digital fabrication machines
the kind of the robot arms the water jet
cutters even really beautiful lathes
really beautiful drills really
presses and that can make it create its
own kind of intimidation in terms of
thinking about what you're going to how
you're going to engage with them what
you're going to make with them but also
you just kind of stand back and let them
wash over you and make kind of
spectacular things but not actually
think about what they're doing yes so
they can be yeah they have they have a
presence I don't necessarily add four
more files too much to say personality
but there is a definite machine presence
in which reflect which could have very
much presses on kind of how we engage
with them how we work how we think about
the shop and the relationship that
people in pr9 and outside of it have
when we think about what is a robot on
what's it to you but what we don't see
as well there's a lot that we don't see
from being here we're physically on the
ground with present in pier nine but
there's a lot that you know can't be
seen this is this is getting us from the
bay model they're talking here about not
only kind of subterranean structures you
know submerged structures but also
strategy we know systems networks things
are going on that we can't necessarily
see around us when we're in pr9
ourselves these can have a corporate
culture and they can things that go on
that kind of beyond our Ken particularly
for the time period that we have but
also kind of raising larger questions
about what's it mean to be embedded in
an organization but you know how much
can you ever truly know about um Cherie
mentioned Donna Haraway is one of our
kind of our leading lights for this and
of course like you know I couldn't go
through that what they're talking about
because the work of bruno latour around
laboratory life about the different
formations of objects and people and
things that go to make up a system of
science a system of technology but again
having to spend time in those spaces to
kind of really get a sense of how they
reflect to work with us so to kind of
finish our kind of for this part of it
that kind of all of this kind of lands
in and gives us quite a lot of questions
about what we're actually of what we're
doing what we're making how we're
engaging as well and they kind of
critical choices that we're making and
how we engage with the machine is how we
engage with a peer it would be its kind
of you feel like I Sally I speak for
myself I feel like it would be easy at
sensei to just give in to the beauty of
the laser cutters and the 3d printers
and make something very beautiful but
like we have questions to ask here about
what the ascetic affordances that come
with them what is the meaning to be
doing work with resin kind of what does
it mean to be doing this work in this
particular space
the seen that show mentioned with Scott
killed or one of the things we talked
about there was this idea that if you're
working with digital fabrication
particular in a kind of critical context
something 3d printed tends to always
look 3d printed so you can't really get
away from that aesthetic and that
political aspect of what it means to
work with these things when we're
thinking about how we can create
something that could be replicated not
everyone very few people are going to
have access to the machines that we do
so even if we upload a file at the end
of this you're still going to have to
have like infrastructure at the other
end to engage with it too and even
thinking about the kind of letter said
the behaviors be kind of the systems
that Sarah mentioned of the pier if you
want around those kind of people will
have lots of kind of little objects on
their desks of things that digitally
fabricated or cuts and particularly
heirs and yet we do this the kind of the
testing thing when you're figuring out
how it's going to work or how is it not
and one of the things that we were
certainly trying was like what happens
if the things we make our things also
open up conversations about the project
we're doing as well as allowing us to
kind of get our skill set up as well so
this I think some of you'll probably
recognize is the slogan logo i guess for
san francisco from two centuries ago
which can have fitted very nicely in our
sense of what what materials mean in
terms of San Francisco's history and its
directions to I'm going to finish up
there but we're going to just continue
and come back to there are big questions
here in terms of how this kind of work
operates in this type of space the type
of engagement that we're having with the
in the long history of this particular
areas you know particular is an area
that's been through several life cycles
what we hit where we're at now is only
one there's going to be a lot more to
come and what it means for us to be
doing this work and again for this work
be kind of commissioned in the first
place at all so I think we've got about
20 minutes for discussion that's all
come back thank you
we have questions now now we're gonna
we're gonna talk to amongst ourselves so
I guess we talked about this a little
bit before but you know this is a pilot
program we from the Autodesk side have
learned a lot from this kind of
experience and and and I'm really
curious to know like what was there
anything that surprised you upon coming
to pure 9 oh my god or caught you off
guard or something that you weren't
expecting I thought me a second thing
which is possibly nespa niners more kind
of methods of the techniques we're
engaging with was just the gulf between
software and hardware in the machine
shop and I've I say I've talked about
this I've ranted about this before that
the machines themselves are not
straightforward but there's a kind of a
process with them we kind of a haptic
engagement of how you can kind of deal
with them how you can turn them on how
you can get things to set and so forth
that's fine and this is kind of
particularly the ones that have a
software engage element where you say
upload a file then you send it in and it
does it's tough the software is the
nightmare the software is a really
difficult one there's kind of there's a
really famous piece of technology
anthropology by Julian or called talking
about machines we're talking with
machines which is this anthropology of
photo copier repair man where he hannah
points out that the way that technology
culture operates at xerox parc is
through discussion around the coffee
table not through manuals and that's how
people learn and after kind of just
getting furious illustrator and
photoshop and n everything else but i
don't know how many times it's like we
need the kind of the updated version of
this called swearing at machines it's
but that kind of gulf between can the
learning that you have with that kind of
space and what you're trying to do with
it that i think like caught me off guard
a little bit i think i think that's one
of the differences between this program
the experimental research lab in the air
program because in the air program we
always at least at this point after the
program's existed for about three years
folks who come into the building really
really
have thorough understandings of the the
software to an extent the hardware but
you know that's that's not why we
necessarily wanted to bring your team in
we didn't necessarily want you in here
to make objects so I mean we're really
happy that you were willing to engage
with that process it we have ways that
we don't always choose the most
efficient ways deliberately like some of
us have more software experience than
others but the point has been for
everyone to engage with all the pieces
and so sometimes that struggle as part
of the point as well as much as also as
we streamline our making as a part of
the process we're going to need to make
some of those choices of just efficiency
but efficiency wasn't our first goal and
so that actually ends up bringing these
things to light and also bringing
conversations and also putting like we
have a tech support back-channel in our
slack channel where wherever because
we're not always in the same place at
the same time whenever people are
running into things they throw questions
and so that others can help answer it so
that's part of the collaboration itself
and I think we also all came into it
deliberately acknowledging that we
wanted to learn from each other a
combination of technical intellectual
you know organizational skills and so
yeah we have some of it but we actually
deliberately choose to not necessarily
go the easiest route which given time
constraints is sometimes it works better
than others I yeah just I mean just
thinking abouts a bit more it's possibly
not surprised but think the themes that
kind of sherry brought up what kind of
ones that emerged over the course the
research but it's been interesting that
I think most of them can be pinpointed
if not to kind of people who are working
in pr9 certainly there's been all unit
they've been we've been thinking about
them from outside there but there's
always been someone there who's had some
kind of like bigger dig into it as well
so again the work around the
decommissioned marrow my mare island
naval ship card came from some
conversations with staff at pier 9 a lot
of the ground water stuff then led to
very great discussions with Scott around
his water structure infrastructure
artwork as well so there's been a lot of
things that many conversations certainly
that Deb's as material scientist has had
about what materials mean in a digital
fabrication shop in terms of both kind
of
printing storing you no longer term
issues as well that's kind of that kind
of reflexivity and discussions has been
has been something that yeah I didn't
expect at all but being great yeah I was
already looking at Alameda and West
Oakland as super fun and like
environmental impact sites and started
digging into treasure island because of
a random conversation with multiple
people who like an artist and also
someone else who works at the pier we're
both like oh you got to look at this
place and went out a complete other
rabbit hole it's been amazing and
inherently connects to everything else
and people have been so generous even as
they're pretty consistent like not
really sure what you're doing but it
sounds kind of cool but oh wait you're
interested in that do you know about
this you know and that in allowing it to
be a research project so it's not like
we have to create this one thing by the
end that wandering and allowance for
that wondering and how generous everyone
at the pier has been to send us down
many rabbit hole mazes is not again not
always efficient but awesome that's
something we're really hoping would
happen I think that you know there's
there's yeah we're providing the
hardware and the software and the space
but a part of where the magic happens is
that sort of deviation from your
original project plan and the sort of
cross-pollination that happens when you
have a whole bunch of different experts
working in different fields in the same
building and that's that's exciting that
that's the thing that I feel like would
be harder to replicate anywhere else so
I'm really happy that that was something
that carried over from the air program
to your project but we didn't know if
there any questions from the audience at
all i think there's a roving mic kicking
around somewhere but also we can't see
you
okay so definitely as far as I'm
concerned from from an autodesk
perspective we we want that
seven-year-old explanation we're having
meeting yesterday and we were like okay
how would you explain it to the CEO of
utter does not necessarily because he is
a seven-year-old yeah but because
legibility is really important to me
personally as as a curator who focuses
with public work but also because not
everyone in who I report to understands
a particular type of language so um I'll
let you guys talk about how you're
approaching a problem valid emotional
the seven-year-old framing is necessary
works for this particular thing we are
talking we are talking about complex
research at this stage we could talk of
an even kind of I think it's compact
some larger issues about kind of how we
talk about politics and culture and
economics and even ethics in tech
communities themselves and those are
questions that certainly an engineering
and design schools where we're dealing
with 18 year olds 21 year olds / 22 year
olds there's a bigger question of how
would you explain the unit critical
making and culture to an 18 year old
engineering student let alone seven year
old student or seven year old anything
her seven-year-old CEO gosh I think one
way to think about it is saying that
we're asking a group of people to look
at the world that technology lives in
the way that it impacts people not
necessarily the technology itself but
kind of the way that people use it the
way that it's been engaged with the
things that people choose to do with it
and kind of the history that it has and
we're also asking at the same time
asking that same team to use that
technology as a way of talking about it
and you're still may be getting that up
into a 12 year old stage of
understanding at that point maybe not
seven but I kind of I think there is a
serious point here about what it means
to make complex research legible and
kind of what parts you're kind of
chopping off at the same time what kind
of how to frame that specific question
to different audiences at the same time
sherry I didn't have you yeah
I think we're all struggling with us
because there's also an inherent tension
I think in our research and in our team
between legibility and research and what
that means because we do come from such
different backgrounds that we speak very
well together like I come from a lot of
public engagement and exhibit design and
like making complex things coherent in a
single installation but I appreciate
that my more academic colleagues also
come from well we start with a general
question and we start wandering and it's
not about being able to explain it in a
really concise way and so we've
definitely felt that tension I think
even amongst ourselves and fundamentally
what we're doing is we are looking at
tech culture within the context of the
history of this region in its
relationship to the military-industrial
complex and the physical environment and
that's it highly simplified way of doing
it and we're doing it within actually
making within an institution that is a
part of that whole culture and using its
tools its current state to talk about
the history in the present and possibly
set up some questions for the future but
I just completely made that up and and
every day it's like okay wait crap we
got it how do we how do we explain this
more succinctly because then that
doesn't go into the million rabbit holes
that we all got really excited about the
million stories so I agree with both
George and Sarah about the challenges
and the need for both the complexity and
the legibility and I think that's
actually inherently one of the most
interesting things about being immersed
in this project and being allowed to
struggle with that and not being told
that it has to if we can't explain to a
seven-year-old like we lose our funding
yes pretty confident by the end of the
project we're gonna we're going to have
that explanation yeah I can see you no
questions
maybe to extend on that how do you know
when you're done oh okay people they're
out of time okay so that the it's a four
months four months research projects
that they'll be wrapping up in June I
mean that's not necessarily done I mean
they're so that that's gonna vez where
it goes and that's difficult right
because there's a definite point and
this is like you know this for any kind
of research work or any kind of light
design work where everything is
interesting at one point and you're just
like no you chop that off and you chop
that off and then we're kind of getting
into the workflow in them against the
design stage and then like and there it
is and that's a delivery point and that
kind of that very hard deadline whilst
it might be looming like a cliff is also
really really useful just as brutal
concentration to kind of thing or what
is the actual thing that we're going to
be really talking about at the end of
this as well how everything else can be
you know again packaged up and maybe
thought about later or given to someone
else and that's fine but there's going
to be that point of there that thing is
and that's what we've got then too well
and I think that also opens possibility
were thinking about outputs of this in
ways that allow us to address the
complexity to make elements of it
legible without having to make it all
monolithic so whether it's the zine
series of talking to different kinds of
people or coming up with this
experimental publication model or
objects that we're talking about making
or even we've been talking a lot about
riffing off of the fact that there are
gazillion tours appear nine because it's
a really neat place and actually
deliberately doing critical tours in the
space so that we and collaborators take
people through the space with a very
specific perspective that is not the one
you normally get when you just come as a
tourist to the space and that way all of
those things can kind of coexist so part
of what we're aiming to do is make it
more legible but part of what we're also
I mean to do is to create output some
frameworks that allow us to address the
complexity and the fact that this stuff
really there's just way too many stories
in some sorts of ways so how do we open
up even more questions as a result of
this I was going to ask about the
outcomes of your research but I think
you may have just answered that but I
guess I would sort of instead ask
whether you imagine the intention of
your outputs will be to have other
people have their own critical
investigation
or to consider like some sort of like
final creative output that maybe you
don't have to see all of the research to
experience the final output like I'm
just curious about that yeah I mean I
think right from the very very beginning
one of the things we were very clear
about was that what came out of the end
wasn't just going to be some final thing
but there would be resources in some
capacity that would allow people to if
not replicate but kind of riff on what
we were doing there'd be kind of things
that could be uploaded or again the
point I was making about not everyone
has access to the unit machines that we
do but wats a kind of a low-res version
of that how can you take an element of
that but also is again not necessary
even replicating the research but how do
you use it to kind of this to spur those
kind of conversations as well how do you
kind of use it as a kind of a starting
point to kind of get that line of
questioning or could've ha going on in
other spaces with what we're doing too
so yeah right when we were coming
together right we were pulling together
a proposal for the lab that was kind of
really heavily baked in as like this
this thing has life beyond the end of
the residency itself that's going to
exists in other forms too because we
have the tools to do that as much as
anything else yeah my initial reaction
is both to you to what you are asking
and that as much as possible as George
says is distributable is replicable and
that even things that are whether it's
making our bibliography public and we're
looking at visualizing in different ways
creating essentially syllabi of some of
our research to say oh here are really
interesting critical projects done in
institutions or here is an interesting
reading list on complexity of
documentation but also things like we do
a lot of site visits and coming up with
a methodology inspired by Cornell boxes
that were calling site visit boxes that
we're going to do an instructable for
and add back into that ecosystem of
where even within ourselves because
there's four of us we're trying and
we're all quite different we're trying
to create structures that give a certain
amount of consistency but allow for
flexibility depending on the topic and
the person and so we're our intention is
to make as much of that as public as
possible so even if people don't
necessarily go down the same paths that
we have in terms of the research maybe
they learn things they hadn't known
otherwise or maybe they
have resources or they have methods that
came out of we're trying to be as
transparent as possible as we're doing
things and there will likely be a big
critical mass of stuff more towards the
end that we release as a part of it Hey
so you put up the the image of
rauschenberg and Bell Labs and it
definitely took me back to a bit of the
feeling of experimentation that came
from that period in a sort of
retrospective sense what do you guys
hope people will take away from the work
at pier nine maybe looking backwards at
this specific moment of art and
technology yeah I think that's a great
question the perfect for our last
question uh-huh and so personally
speaking at you know as someone who's
embedded within that company I think it
makes sense or I hope that people come
away with the idea that it doesn't have
to be exploitative to work with artists
in a corporate context you know you you
can and should pay artists artists are
really effective in some ways at
demonstrating how technological tools
can do really cool and interesting
things and that might bring additional
perspectives that she would necessarily
get if you have dedicated our d people
working and testing on a particular
group of technologies and also that it's
a really effective tool for advertising
and marketing so ninety percent of
Autodesk media mentions come from work
created up here nine and I think that's
great because it's not like everyone's
our projects has like the word autodesk
you know 3d printed onto it they're
doing really cool and interesting and
meaningful things in my opinion and I
hope people understand that there are
there are ways that art and creativity
and tech and corporate infrastructure
can exist simultaneously that isn't
completely one way I'm
I mean I think that's come there's
smaller things like looking back on this
one of the things we've always had in
mind was this is about processes amount
of outcomes so kind of what are we
learning from this as you know how
firstly do interdisciplinary design and
research work and how do you do it in
the context of a large quickly of a
large software company but I think
there's also the kind of there's this
kind of quite radical element to this if
like this is not the artisan resident
program this is an interdisciplinary
maybe social science anthropology design
journalism heavy team that for all the
discussions and I'm aware I'm sayin this
here that we have around art and
technology which are great and really
exciting the elements where we get to
bring in those aspects from say the
social sciences anthropology thinking
about politics and culture and ethics
and even economics I see those
discussions happening less about how you
can embed those kind of conversations
into technology spaces whether it's as
you know arts technology spaces whether
its technology companies whether it's
government itself so I need to be able
to look back at this as a program as an
instance of thinking about how do you
start those again to convert the 7-yard
question how do you start there's quite
difficult and complex conversations
about difficult and complex aspects of
technology within the technology space
itself not from outside of it and I'd
you know if that's something we get out
of it I'm going to be absolutely stoked
and I have to say it is quite meaningful
to be able to do this at all because I
think especially United States there's
not the traditional arts infrastructure
to support this kind of work with
technology necessarily in a very formal
way gray areas here and that's wonderful
but I means a lot to be able to have
have art history kind of follow the work
as opposed to the work having to follow
our to circle president in some ways
Jerry do you have anything well well
thanks so much for being a great group